so i want to talk to you guys a little
bit about
value today so sometimes we have these
experiences in life that like hurt
and they can make us feel less like
people like they're even dehumanizing
and
you know we look around and we see like
other people being treated with value
and sometimes we don't get treated with
value
and that hurts so much that like our
mind has to come up with a reason
why that person is treating me that way
because the idea that this
that i'm just like i'm not worth it is
so
painful in and of itself and that i have
to rationalize
or justify or excuse that person's
behavior
because if we can excuse someone else's
then it's not that we don't lack value
they're not actually treating us
appropriately
there's a reason they're treating us
that way so it's like okay for
them to do that to us and it's bizarre
because
in that moment by giving the other
person an excuse you're protecting your
own sense of value
but then what happens is that becomes
maladaptive very very quickly
and then what happens is like we start
giving people excuses
for mistreating us because when we give
them an excuse then it's not our fault
to like
you know we're oh i'm not actually a bad
person this person was just raised in
such a way and like that's just
you know has nothing to do with me it
has everything to do with them
and so we start to create these
solutions where we protect ourselves
from what they do to us by giving them
an excuse
and that's actually what screws us
because then suddenly
no one is doing anything wrong and at
the end of the day you're still getting
hurt
and if you're getting hurt and no one's
to blame then like what do you do with
that
and that's when you end up like stuck
interpersonally with other people
that's where you end up with like
trusted views and all these other like
weird manifestations
are propagating unhealthy relationships
because you're not willing to hold the
responsible parties responsible
and so when you give them that excuse
you take away from yourself the capacity
to forgive
to move on
because remember if they didn't do
anything wrong then what is there to
forgive
and so you're kind of stuck in this
limbo where there's pain
that you kind of defend against but you
hold no one responsible
and therefore you can't forgive because
they didn't do anything wrong and then
you're kind of stuck
and you end up in this weird like limbo
where like it just feels weird like
relationships feel
off to you and this especially happens
with people in your life
that you love because the more you love
them
the harder it is to accept that they did
something hurtful to you
because that hurts way more so the more
you love them
the more you make excuses for them the
more you make excuses for them the more
it isn't their fault
and the more it isn't their fault
there's no need to forgive everyone's
hunky-dory everything's great
no need for forgiveness i can hang out
with him tomorrow
everything's great except they did do
that thing to you
and it did hurt and it does hurt another
week goes by
they do it again another excuse no
forgiveness
no responsibility no need for change and
then your heart builds up a little bit
but no no no no i'm gonna be
compassionate
i'm gonna be a nice person it's not
their fault they were raised by really
abusive parents so it's okay if they hit
me
that's just the way they were raised and
so it's devastating
it's difficult because like part of the
reason you're stuck is because you can't
forgive
and part of the reason people ask me how
do i move past stuff
how do i let go you have to like forgive
right you have to accept you have to
forgive
but you can't do that as long as you
deny there's a problem
and the reason that you deny there's a
problem is because it hurts to admit
that there is a problem
and so in a bizarre way if you want to
start moving forward i know this sounds
bizarre
because people are going to tell you
that like blaming is what gets people
stuck
but especially with those you love start
with blame
start by holding people responsible for
what they're doing
start by holding yourself responsible
for what you do and then comes the hard
part right because we're really good at
holding ourselves responsible and
beating ourselves up
i'm gonna do better tomorrow i'm gonna
work harder tomorrow
next time it's gonna be different and
then you beat yourself up so when it
comes to yourself
you need to do the second piece which is
forgive
so assign responsibility accept it
forgive and that's when you can be free
that's when your relationship can get
better that's when you can start to move
forward
but you have to start by calling it what
it is
if someone mistreats you call them out
on it
if you love them anyway you can say hey
like i care about you
but like what you did wasn't good
and it hurt and when it comes to
yourself
if you blame yourself way too much learn
how to forgive
like yeah you did screw up but that's
okay because no one's perfect
and you're gonna do your best next time
and that you are in your own corner
that you're willing to give yourself
another shot so be careful because
the things that we do to protect
ourselves from hurt
are the things that sign us up for more
hurt down the road
and you have to understand what you're
doing to yourself
and once you begin to understand what
you're doing to yourself you can start
to change it try to change it do your
best
just like today right if we look at
aaron like what he did wonderfully was
like at that very
last point i don't know how to say this
but you know we talked about it for a
while
and then he didn't get to it until we
pointed out
what he does to protect himself and if
you guys are trying to
clean the hurt you have to take off the
shell first
and then you can get out in there and
clean it up so be careful about the
things that you tell yourself to protect
yourself from being hurt
and try not telling yourself those
things let yourself feel that hurt let
the consequences flow
sit with them and then you can move
forward